.\"                                                              -*- nroff -*-
.Dd Aug 8, 2023
.Dt ADVENT 6
.Sh NAME
.Nm advent
.Nd Colossal Cave Adventure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl r
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is the real, full-blown Colossal Cave Adventure game, written by
Will Crowther and Don Woods at Stanford AI Lab in the early '70s.  It is
the first interactive fiction game where the computer simulates and
describes a situation, and the user types in what to do next, in simple
English.
.Ss Example
.Pp
.Bd -literal
You are standing at the end of a road before a small brick building.
Around you is a forest.  A small stream flows out of the building and
down a gully.

> █
.Ed
.Sh OPTIONS
This program follows the usual UNIX command line syntax:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r
Restore previously saved game.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
This program has many interactive commands, the built-in
.Pa help
and the context will guide you.  Use
.Pa quit
to leave the game and
.Pa suspend
to save your location for a later time.
.Sh TIPS
Before you begin, a few suggestions:
.Bl -enum
.It
Make a map.  There are two common ways to handle this. You can use a
piece of butcher paper and a pencil and sketch in all the rooms as
circles or whatever with directions marked for the lines between
rooms.  The other way to make a map is to make a word table with the
room names down one side along with numbers you've assigned each
room.  Along the top of the table you put N, NW, W, SW, S, SE, E and
so on.  (don't forget up and down).  Then you can tell at a glance
which directions you have tried and haven't tried.
.It
Save the game every half hour or so (unless you have spent a lot of
moves getting nowhere).
.It
Take your time.  I've seen major gamers spend 6 months working on
this one.  They were spending 2 or 3 hours a day and they weren't
beginners!
.El
.Pp
Try everything!
.Pp
Sometimes you will have to go back to a previous location to be able to
do something.  The game parser uses simple two word (verb-noun) commands
(after all, this is the first text adventure game. Infocom wasn't to be
for a while yet!)
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ~/.adventure -compact
.It Pa ~/.adventure
Save game file.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was originally written by William Crowther, with major features added by
Don Woods.  The conversion to BDS C was done by Jay R.  Jaeger, ported
to UNIX by Jerry D. Pohl.  The last port to QNX 4, which this version is
based on, was made by James Lummel.
